# Homework

A [new video](https://youtu.be/ykI2KDRc9XU) has been posted to our YouTube channel. It is a replacement video for our last meeting on October 5th. Your homework is embedded in the video.

I've included two tables, one with the approximate timings for each topic, and one with timings for each assignment. YouTube also has a transcript that you can search by text.

## Video Topics

| topic           | start |    stop | duration |
| --------------- | ----: | ------: | -------: |
| intro           |  0:00 |    2:39 |     2:39 |
| flow control    |  2:39 |   21:32 |    18:53 |
| shellcheck      | 21:32 |   39:30 |    17:58 |
| bash debug      | 39:30 |   49:33 |    10:03 |
| .gitignore      | 49:33 |   53:54 |     4:21 |
| history search  | 53:54 | 1:18:00 |    24:06 |
| **total** |  0:00 | 1:18:00 |  1:18:00 |

## Homework Assignment

1. `iffy` Function (11:05) - Silver

   * Listen to the discussion about the `iffy` function showing incorrect output
   * Can you determine why and fix it?
2. For Loop (13:45) - Bronze

   * Listen to the discussion about the `for` loop
   * The problem has two parts:

     * The loop doesn't loop!
     * It prints the glob (wildcard filename pattern) and misidentifies it as a text file instead of the filenames it matches
     * Can you figure out why and fix it without looking at my solution?
3. `weekday` Function Bug (16:15)

   * Listen to the discussion about the `weekday` function using the case construct
   * `weekday` Function Bug - Bronze
     * A bug is exposed in the video because it is run on a Sunday
     * The code works correctly from Monday to Friday
     * Can you fix the code?
4. `weekday` Function Testing - Platinum

   * How can you test your code for the `weekday` function when the current weekday is not Saturday or Sunday?
   * Can you write a solution that lets you arbitrarily test any weekday by calling `date`?
   * Can you do this in a way that will not affect any other processes that may be calling `date` at the same time?
5. History Search Methods (1:14:04)

   * Listen to the discussion about the two good methods for searching history output (`search-history-good` and `search-history-robust`)
   * History Search Output - Silver
     * Why does `search-history-robust` remove whitespace from its output?
   * History Search Reliability (1:14:04) - Platinum
     * How can you get the reliability of the awk-based method while maintaining the formatting accuracy of the cut-based method?
