# Ethics, Batman, and Unobtainium

Cyber Defense Club, 2024-09-28

## Meeting Notes

### AI Ethics

Dan got us started with a great conversation topic about how and where to draw the line between ethical use of AI in our schoolwork and beyond, for example in the intellectual property concepts of fair use and prior art.

This led to further discussion about the wisdom of seeking clarity whenever you don't know what your professor, manager, or other authority requires.

### Network Config

We discussed who got how far in our bronze/silver/gold/platinum/unobtainium levels. Congratulations across the board! I think everybody got a lot done over the week.

On the other hand, I'd best point out that I broke my own unobtainium implementation earlier in the week, but the breakage didn't show up until the next reboot, which was during my demo with you folks. The proper level for my VM when I showed up Saturday was probably more like coal than unobtainium. :)

### A Little Dash of Scripting

We took a quick look at a service I created to stabilize my network config.

- As a reminder for anyone looking back at this later in the year, it was my dependencies that broke after I added Ubuntu's desktop environment.
- The demonstration of the service's script did work. No matter what we did to my network config, if we ran the script afterward, it put everything back, as intended.

## Follow-up Notes

### Discussion of `.profile` and `.bashrc`

These two files are automatically run for a user when `bash` sessions begin. However, I could not remember when each one runs. After doing a little digging, I'd like to clarify this for you.

- `.profile` runs whenever you start a login session. It will invoke `.bashrc` as well.
- `.bashrc` runs for interactive non-login shells.

> Login Shell: A login shell is the shell that initiates a user session on a computer, whether through a desktop environment or a tty/pty.
>
> Additional Note: Some utilities, like su and sudo, can be explicitly told to start a new login shell. For these utilities, consult their documentation for details.

## BONUS - DHCP is Funcitoning!

Tristan's DHCP server is up and running and can hand out Proxy addresses automatically. It's pretty easy to get Windows and Linux Network Manager to use these proxy settings. Netplan does not integrate with it as well.

Thanks, Tristan!
